fix(CSS): mention containment context as containing block (#27744)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/position/index.md

- `absolute`

>   - : The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. The element is positioned relative to its closest [containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block#identifying_the_containing_block). Its final position is determined by the values of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. The element is positioned relative to its closest [containing block](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block#identifying_the_containing_block). Its final position is determined by the values of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`.
```

>   - : The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. It is positioned relative to either its closest [positioned](#types_of_positioning) ancestor; closest [containment context](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_containment) with `layout`, `paint`, `strict`, and `content` containments; or the initial [containing block](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block). Its final position is determined by the values of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`.

Author: > should the link to CSS containment be changed to the Containing block page, section Identifying the containing block?

The [identifying containing block section](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block#identifying_the_containing_block) on that page covers all the possibilities not just containment. So if we do that then we don't have to write all the cases here:
```suggestion
  - : The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. It is positioned relative to either its closest [containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block#identifying_the_containing_block). Its final position is determined by the values of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`.
```
If you are willing to simplify like this then let's do it.

>   - : The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. It is positioned relative to either its closest [positioned](#types_of_positioning) ancestor; closest [containment context](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_containment) with `layout`, `paint`, `strict`, and `content` containments; or the initial [containing block](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block). Its final position is determined by the values of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`.

Reviewer: Yes, this edit seems reasonable and its better to have details in one place to reduce maintenance.

Only question I have here is if its technically accurate to replace the options of 'closest positioned ancestor, closest containing block, and initial containing block' with only 'closest containing block'. Does that cover all the scenarios and does it make it obvious to the readers that all those scenarios are covered?

>   - : The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. It is positioned relative to either its closest [positioned](#types_of_positioning) ancestor; closest [containment context](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_containment) with `layout`, `paint`, `strict`, and `content` containments; or the initial [containing block](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block). Its final position is determined by the values of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`.

Author: > Only question I have here is if its technically accurate to replace the options of 'closest positioned ancestor, closest containment* block, and initial containing block' with only 'closest containing block'. 

The section [identifying the containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block#identifying_the_containing_block), that we are trying use here, covers these same cases and calls it a 'containing block'. So it has already been established.

> Does that cover all the scenarios and does it make it obvious to the readers that all those scenarios are covered?

It is covering more scenarios than these section. And we are trying to make it complete (e.g. https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/27739). \
Counter argument would be if we don't refer to that section then users may come complaining those scenarios are not covered here. :P

    This value creates a new [stacking context](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Positioning/Understanding_z_index/The_stacking_context) when the value of `z-index` is not `auto`. The margins of absolutely positioned boxes do not [collapse](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Box_Model/Mastering_margin_collapsing) with other margins.

- `fixed`

>   - : The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. The element is positioned relative to its closest [containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block#identifying_the_containing_block). Its final position is determined by the values of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`.

Author: ```suggestion
  - : The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. The element is positioned relative to its closest [containing block](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block#identifying_the_containing_block). Its final position is determined by the values of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`.
```

>   - : The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. It is positioned either relative to the closest [containment context](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_containment) with `layout`, `paint`, `strict`, and `content` containments or relative to the initial [containing block](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block) established by the {{glossary("viewport")}}, except when one of its ancestors has a `transform`, `perspective`, or `filter` property set to something other than `none` (see the [CSS Transforms Spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-transforms-1/#propdef-transform)), or the [`will-change`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/will-change) property is set to `transform`, in which case that ancestor behaves as the containing block. (Note that there are browser inconsistencies with `perspective` and `filter` contributing to containing block formation.) Its final position is determined by the values of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`.

Reviewer: Same comment about the link here. Also, we might not 

```suggestion
  - : The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. The element is positioned relative to either its closest [containing block](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block#identifying_the_containing_block) with `layout`, `paint`, `strict`, or `content` values for `contain` or its initial containing block established by the {{glossary("viewport")}}, except when one of its ancestors has a `transform`, `perspective`, or `filter` property set to something other than `none` (see the [CSS Transforms Spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-transforms-1/#propdef-transform)), or the [`will-change`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/will-change) property is set to `transform`, in which case that ancestor behaves as the containing block. (Note that there are browser inconsistencies with `perspective` and `filter` contributing to containing block formation.) Its final position is determined by the values of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`.
```

Author: From the answer above the simplification would be:
```suggestion
  - : The element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout. The element is positioned relative to its closest [containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block#identifying_the_containing_block). Its final position is determined by the values of `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`.
```
Same logic that sections is thorough and covers every aspect we don't have to repeat any info from there.

Reviewer: - I have the same question here as in the previous comment wrt 'closest positioned ancestor, closest containing block, and initial containing block'.
- The text here refers to "`transform`, `perspective`, or `filter` property set to something other than `none`", whereas in the [Identifying the containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block#identifying_the_containing_block) section, point 4 only refers to two of them:
"A `transform` or `perspective` value other than `none`."
Perhaps this point in "Identifying the containing block" section needs to be updated?
- +1 to moving 'browser inconsistency' note to "Identifying the containing block" section

Author: > * The text here refers to "`transform`, `perspective`, or `filter` property set to something other than `none`", whereas in the [Identifying the containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block#identifying_the_containing_block) section, point 4 only refers to two of them:
>   "A `transform` or `perspective` value other than `none`."
>   Perhaps this point in "Identifying the containing block" section needs to be updated?

:O The 4.iii section does cover `filter` property: ```A `filter` value other than `none` or a `will-change` value of `filter` ```

Author: > * +1 to moving 'browser inconsistency' note to "Identifying the containing block" section

Done in commit [add the note to containing clock page](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/27744/commits/ce8256b2a7d4340a669e77069bca5f9e05e31c09).

Reviewer: > The 4.iii section does cover filter property:

My bad, I missed this.
